---
layout: post
title:  "Bridging Blockchain & Backend: My Dynamic Stint at AgreeWe"
summary: "During my freelance role at AgreeWe, I seamlessly integrated a new smart contract into the backend in record time, delved deeper into advanced NestJS concepts, and navigated challenges in a dynamic startup environment. Working with a global remote team, I experienced the nuances of international collaboration while enhancing my tech prowess."
author: twilker
date: '2023-05-31 14:35:23 +0530'
category: work
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/agreewe/agreewe_logo.jfif
permalink: /work/agreewe/
language: Typescript
homepage: https://www.agreewe.com/
languages: Typescript, Solidity, Rust
technologies: Express, NestJS, React, Web3, Ganache, PostgreSQL
timeinvestment: 4 months
ai-crafted: true
---

## Introduction
Embarking on a freelance journey with AgreeWe, I dove headfirst into the bustling startup environment. A short but insightful 4-month experience, the role was both challenging and exhilarating, fueling my passion and introducing me to new horizons in the tech landscape.

## Rapid Integration & Key Achievements
One of my standout moments at AgreeWe was the prototypical integration of a new smart contract. With a keen understanding of the backend architecture, I managed to seamlessly incorporate the changes in just a few hours over a weekend. The swiftness and efficiency of this integration is something I take great pride in, showcasing my adaptability and quick comprehension.

## Challenges Faced
While technical challenges are par for the course, sometimes the interpersonal ones are trickier. Taking over from another blockchain developer, unbeknownst to him that I was stepping into his shoes, made our interactions a tad awkward. Such scenarios underlined the importance of transparent communication and tact in professional transitions.

## Learning & Development
Diving deeper into NestJS, this role facilitated my exploration of its advanced concepts. I acquainted myself with sophisticated features such as pipes and custom guards, enhancing my backend expertise.

## Embracing Global Collaboration
AgreeWe's team was an eclectic mix of talents, operating remotely across the globe. Transitioning from predominantly German teams to this diverse, worldwide group was an eye-opener. While it necessitated more regular communication for synchronization, the collaboration was smooth, offering a glimpse into the future of global remote work.

## Conclusion
Though brief, my time at AgreeWe was a whirlwind of learning, challenges, and accomplishments. It reiterated the significance of adaptability in the tech domain and broadened my perspective on global teamwork. As I continue on my professional journey, the insights garnered here, especially the interplay between different architectural approaches, enrich my subsequent endeavors like LumiOS.