---
layout: post
title:  "Navigating Rust: Implementing Chum Pederson ZKP"
summary: "In a challenging job interview process, I successfully implemented the Chum Pederson ZKP for authentication in Rust, overcoming hurdles related to object ownership. Despite time constraints, the project was delivered with complete documentation, testing, and Dockerization."
author: twilker
date: '2023-06-28 14:35:23 +0530'
category: project
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/cp-zkp/cp-zkp.png
permalink: /projects/cp-zkp/
language: Rust
repository: https://github.com/twilker/cp-zkp
homepage: https://twilker.github.io/cp-zkp/auth_lib/
languages: Rust
technologies: tonic, prost, tokio
timeinvestment: 20 hours
ai-crafted: true
---

## The Challenge: A Race Against Time
As part of a rigorous job interview process, I embarked on an ambitious task: implementing the Chum Pederson Zero-Knowledge Proof (ZKP) for authentication in Rust. With a tight deadline of one week, I set out to complete the project, delivering it in just 2.5 days.

## Rust's Unique Challenge: Object Ownership
The primary hurdle in this project was Rust's unique approach to object ownership and memory management. Coming from a background predominantly focused on smart contracts, this presented a new complexity level. My solution, under the time pressure, involved an extensive use of locks to manage object ownership – a practical but suboptimal approach.

## Focus on Comprehensive Development
Aware of the constraints and priorities, I chose to allocate my time effectively. While the locking mechanism was a quick-fix, I invested significant effort into other aspects of the project, such as thorough documentation, rigorous testing, and Dockerization. This holistic approach ensured the project was well-rounded and ready for practical deployment.

## Feedback and Learning
The project culminated in an in-depth discussion with the interviewers about the locking issue I encountered. This feedback session was as much a learning opportunity as it was an evaluation, highlighting the importance of balancing quick solutions with optimal practices, especially under time constraints.

## Conclusion
This experience was more than just a technical challenge; it was a testament to adaptive learning and strategic prioritization under pressure. It underscored the importance of understanding and navigating a language's unique features, like Rust's object ownership model, and the value of comprehensive development, even when racing against the clock.